---
title: OPTIC
parent: Planners
permalink: /ref/planners/optic
nav_order: 5
---
# OPTIC: Optimising Preferences and Time-Dependent Costs

Page Contributors: {% git_author %}

Year Published: 2012

Paper: [Temporal Planning with Preferences and Time-Dependent Continuous Costs](https://www.aaai.org/ocs/index.php/ICAPS/ICAPS12/paper/view/4699/4708) [Benton, J. Coles, A. Coles, A.]

Preceded By: [POPF](../POPF/main.md)

OPTIC is a temporal planner for use in problems where plan cost is determined by preferences or time-dependent goal-collection costs. Such problems arise in a range of interesting situations, from scheduling the delivery of perishable goods, to coordinating order-fulfillment activities in warehouses.

## Contents
Documentation of OPTIC is an on-going area of interest and as such, documentation has been included here. This documentation is not official support documentation, but provided publicly given that it has been produced with the input of the creators of OPTIC and people who work very closely with this piece of research software.

There are two existing strands of OPTIC. OPTIC (Legacy) is the version of OPTIC currently available from KCL Planning. OPTIC+ is a rewritten version of OPTIC (sometimes referred to as rewrite). The rewritten version of OPTIC provides significant improvement on the performance of the scheduler through custom memory management. OPTIC+ is not currently publicly available. 

- OPTIC (Legacy)
    - [Compiling](./Legacy/compiling.md)
- OPTIC+
    - [Compiling](./Plus/compiling.md)

## Support
OPTIC Supports the following features according to Eviscerator:

<!--- Markdown Generated by Eviscerator --->

|Requirement | Supported?|
| --- | --- |
|**PDDL1.2** |
|:strips | Yes |
|:typing | Yes |
|:disjunctive-preconditions | No |
|:equality | Yes |
|:existential-preconditions | No |
|:universal-preconditions | Yes |
|:conditional-effects | No |
|:domain-axioms | No |
|:subgoals-through-axioms | No |
|:safety-constraints | No |
|:open-world | No |
|:quantified-preconditions | No |
|:adl | No |
|:ucpop | No |
|**PDDL2.1** |
|:numeric-fluents | Yes |
|:durative-actions | Yes |
|:duration-inequalities | Yes |
|:continuous-effects | Yes |
|:negative-preconditions | No |
|**PDDL2.2** |
|:derived-predicates | No |
|:timed-initial-literals | Yes |
|**PDDL3.0** |
|:constraints | Yes |
|:preferences | Yes |
|**PDDL3.1** |
|:action-costs | Yes |
|:goal-utilities | No |
|**PDDL+** |
|:time | No |

## Downloading and Compiling OPTIC
For more information on how to download, compile and use OPTIC, please visit the [OPTIC Homepage](https://nms.kcl.ac.uk/planning/software/optic.html)

## Additional Notes
OPTIC has support for linear continuous effects only. This is due to the nature of durative planning in which we can apply constraints over a duration, which cannot be easily verified in non-linear continuous effects. 
